# Tides By Your Side

This project is an artistic representation of the tides, water current speed, and wind speed at an observation point along a river. This visualization and LED display could be used to give recreational or commercial boaters a general sense of their surrounding weather conditions. Personally, I envision this as something that may be on the dashboard of a boat, but not actively used during navigation since it is only an abstract representation. It would be most suited to be used as a screensaver for a dashboard console. The display is generated by accessing the NOAA's API, which gives data on the water and weather conditions. Details are described below.

The code controlling the LED is written in python and the code generating the visualization is written in JavaScript using the p5.js library. For technical information on this project, including the files containing the code for the LED and the visualization, visit https://github.com/sdlanda77/CES_HW/tree/main/HW1

Data from this project is taken from the NOAA's Tides and Currents API. Parameters can be found at https://api.tidesandcurrents.noaa.gov/api/prod/

The visualization on the display screen is based off of the velocity of the water and the time of day. The speed of the lines is calculated in relation to the velocity of the water. In general, the rougher and faster the water, the faster the lines will move. The maximum length of the lines is calculated based on the time of day; as the day progresses, the lines will get longer. Note that the length of lines is generated randomly and the time of day dictates the maximum length.

The path that the lines follow are randomly generated, and do not correlate to the weather or water traditions. The colors are randomly generated, but are constrained to blue colors. When they overlap, the overlapped section is purple.

This code was adapted from 0132 by kusakari, which can be found at https://www.openprocessing.org/sketch/956208

The LED indicates the direction of the wind at the specified location. From the top going clockwise, the 8 lights represent North, Northeast, East, Southeast, South, Southwest, West, and Northwest. The brightness of the LED is determined by the speed of the wind. A brighter LED indicated stronger wind.
